.TH FINFO 1 "2026-06-04" "finfo" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
finfo \- file info at a glance: metadata, checksums, binary analysis & linked libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B finfo
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR...
.br
.B finfo
\fB\-\-diff\fR \fIFILE1\fR \fIFILE2\fR
.br
.B finfo
\fB\-\-lib\fR \fINAME\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B finfo
displays comprehensive information about one or more files, including size,
architecture, permissions, file type, MIME type, symlink chain, linked
libraries, and (on macOS) code signatures.
.PP
If an argument is not a valid path,
.B finfo
searches for it in
.BR PATH .
Glob patterns are expanded by the shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-hash
Calculate and show file checksums (MD5, SHA256, SHA512).
.TP
.B \-\-lib
Search for library files (\fI.so\fR, \fI.a\fR, \fI.dylib\fR) matching the argument.
.TP
.B \-\-diff
Compare two files and show a git-like diff of size, permissions,
modification time, and checksums. Requires exactly two file arguments.
.TP
.BR \-\-ll ", " \-\-linked\-libs
Show only the full list of linked libraries, with no other info.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Show info for a specific file:
.B finfo /usr/bin/python3
.TP
Resolve a command name through
.BR PATH :
.B finfo python3
.TP
Show multiple files:
.B finfo file1 file2 file3
.TP
Show checksums:
.B finfo \-\-hash file.zip
.TP
Compare two files:
.B finfo \-\-diff file1.txt file2.txt
.TP
Search for a library:
.B finfo \-\-lib ssl
.TP
List linked libraries only:
.B finfo \-\-ll cmake
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (invalid arguments, unreadable file, command not found in PATH, etc.).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR file (1),
.BR stat (1),
.BR otool (1),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR shasum (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Srikanth Kandarp (@oh\-tarnished).
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at <https://github.com/oh-tarnished/finfo/issues>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. See the LICENSE file in the source distribution for details.
